# Memory-to-UART Printer Example

Example verilog that can be used to demonstrate the firesim-lab framework.

When executed, this example design reads the contents of the sample.hex file
via the FireSim FASED Memory Bridge (DRAM bridge). It then routes this data
through the target design and prints it to the console using the UART Bridge.

### Key Concept: What is a Bridge?
In the FireSim ecosystem, Bridges provide a latency-insensitive interface
between the simulated target design and the resources on the host system
(such as I/O, files, or memory). This mechanism ensures that the target design
maintains strict cycle-accurate execution, regardless of any unpredictable
latency from the host machine.

---

## Typical steps to build and run:

Change to a workspace directory of choice on your host/workstation/laptop and
run `firesim-lab` to enter into the firesim lab container environment. Then:

1. Create a new project using `fslab new my-uart-print`. This will scaffold a new project
2. Place the `AXIUARTPrinter.v` inside `my-uart-print/user_rtl`
   and `sample.hex` inside `my-uart-print/payload`
3. Change to project folder and initialize:
```bash
cd my-uart-print
fslab init -t AXIUARTPrinter -f AXIUARTPrinter.v
```
4. This should create `fslab.yaml` file inside the `my-uart-print` folder with
   the ports from the top module `AXIUARTPrinter`
5. Map various ports to the memory and uart bridges in `fslab.yaml`.
   Refer to the documentation for detailed steps on configuring.
6. If you want to inspect the files generated by firesim-lab, then you can
   run `fslab generate` or if you want to directly build for metasimulation
   you can run `fslab build` or `fslab build metasim`
7. You can then run metasimulation using
   `fslab sim --args '+loadmem=/target/mem-uart-test/payload/sample.hex +max-cycles=100000'`
8. You should now see the data placed in `sample.hex` printed on screen.
9. You can continue to simulate using aws F2 instances provided you have the aws
   setup completed. You can use commands `fslab build fpga` to build the project
   targetting an fpga (as configured in `fslab.yaml`) and `fslab sim fpga` to
   simulate on the fpga.

See the [main README](../README.md) for the full CLI reference.